hey guys today we're going to be talking
about the allnew axis Spitfire and we're
going to be covering exactly who it's
for and where does this Wing
Excel all right so we've both ridden
this uh Spitfire Wing now a couple times
I think uh and we're both really liking
it right you said you liked it what have
you been liking about it how have you
used it what type of foiling have you
done with it so far so I got on the axis
Spitfire for the first time when I was
actually prone foiling and I was
absolutely Blown Away by the Turning
performance of this swing I mean what I
couldn't believe was it pumped really
well but it still had great edgo Edge
performance and this is something that I
haven't really seen in wings that pump
well going from wave to wave I was able
to connect three or four waves and I
wasn't absolutely gassed trying to pump
it um but still the down the line
performance was super good and the other
thing was I didn't feel like this thing
was hitting the brakes and I know you've
been winging with it I didn't know how
do you you feel about the speed of it
yeah um so I've been winging with it
totally would agree with you on that
that edge to edge side to side roll
Carvin super playful super fun very
impressive with how well it turns um is
nothing surprising to me from axis I
think they did a really good job with
their art series um in terms of how well
that turns for a high aspect foil too so
it does like Cole said I've just winged
with it here so that's a little bit uh
higher speeds than what you typically
hit when you're prone foiling with the
exception of maybe being like some of
your drops if you're dropping in on some
pitching waves um and I thought that it
did pretty well uh I still need to do
some playing around with some different
stabilizers for it uh I think that makes
a a huge difference when you get into
these kind of mid aspect foils or uh I
should say mid to high aspect foils and
your uh your speed range that you get
out of them we had it set up with the
365 skinny uh which is one of their new
series that access came out with
designed to ride at higher speeds I
think it was designed more for people
that are riding like those art wings but
I thought that it pairs really well with
the Spitfire uh for winging to try and
eek out a little more performance um
then you mentioned on the pump ability
that's something that I I really noticed
was there too I thought that it pumped
really well um I need a few more
sessions on it but I'd say maybe it's
one that needs to slow down a little bit
for winging to really pump um I feel
like it's
you can't just uh come out of a fast
downwind Jive or uh I mean you kind of
you got to be going like wave speed I
would say to really get get this in the
zone that it wants to pump at and of
course some of that has to do with um
the size Wing that I was riding and all
that so when talking about the speed of
the wing we kind of covered the top end
of it Ryan was saying that you know when
you're ripping on the wing you're you're
going to hit the top end speed for this
foil but on the waves it it really
excels it's really hard to push the
limit of the speed of the Spitfire on
the wave it really likes to go down the
line but again you're going to hit that
top end limit when you're on the wing
and you're cooking up wind we were
talking about the high-end speed of the
foil so Ryan was talking about winging
kind of where those speed limits are I
was talking about on the prone side of
things where the limits of the wing are
but Ryan talk to me a little bit about
how you felt this thing performed on the
low end of the speed for the Spitfire
lowend was excellent um really easy to
get up and get going with Wing don't
need a ton of uh Power and speed to get
going with them which is awesome
especially if you get out in some of
those wave conditions you want to pop
right up and get going not having to
worry about building board speed uh so
that that part is really awesome for it
the other side of that with the stall
speed is dropping off foil you can
really I felt like you could really
almost stall this thing out to almost
nothing and then pick up the wing again
and take off uh so that that is pretty
awesome too cuz uh I mean no matter what
level you're at riding I feel like as as
Wingers it's easy you get into those
situations where you're riding the wave
and maybe you're looking for another
section to pump through or you see
something coming up and it's not quite
there and maybe you just little lapse in
judgment and all of a sudden you're
slowing down and you realize you're
about to stall out but you're still up
on foil with the Spitfire with a lot of
other Wings you're slamming into the
water and you're going to have to to
restart board start with it how' you
think it did for proning as far as stall
speed goes and and take off yeah so I
was I was going to say something very
similar to you it's a very forgiving
Wing when you're proning with it some of
those High aspect Wings if you get
caught really hard in your toe side or
heelside Edge the wing doesn't want to
turn and all a sudden you're in the
water especially when you're trying to
pump out the back and clear that wave
that you're on where this thing it
rolled over really nice and you could
regain your stability really quickly and
this helped a ton with that low end as
well because when you get off balance
sometimes you can't pump right away
where this thing actually did Glide a
little bit and it did slow down but it
didn't drop out and make you slam into
the water so you could really recover
and then pump out the back and catch the
next wave there it's forgiving yeah just
it's a forgiving Wing both on prone and
the wing one other thing about this Wing
that I thought was super interesting so
basically this
constant width across wing tip to wing
tip across the center line helps a ton
when you're turning and when you hit
either current or Bubbles from The Wave
breaking or something in that nature
with other wings that have a variable
cord line width across the the wing
there when you hit a wave hit the
current whatever it pitches the wing up
but it also changes your pitch up and
down whereas with the Spitfire because
it has that consistent width across wing
tip to wing tip in the middle there your
Wing's only going to pitch side to side
so it's not going to pitch you up or
down which helps it be a very forgiving
Wing I didn't know about that but I did
notice that riding it yeah um there are
a couple times where I got into some
turbulent water and situations where you
kind of whoa whoa whoa Y and uh on the
Spitfire it was just kind of like more
of a a subtle uh board adjustment yeah
it just kind of pitches you rather than
you look down and you can see the the
white water the turbulent water that you
hit there where's a lot of other foils
when you when you hit that it's it's a
lot more noticeable I would say so that
that's a that's cool well that makes
sense because you hadn't even known
about it and you felt it so that design
definitely isn't a gimmick it's not
something that's trying to sell you on
the wing something that actually works
which is really cool all right guys so
you can see we've been riding the
Spitfire really enjoy this Wing uh
couple key things to take away here very
very good uh foil when it comes to
turning that side to side heel the toe
performance is awesome uh really
forgiving foil in terms of stall speed
and uh ability to take off on foil uh
really allows you to slow things down if
you need to yeah one thing I want to add
is if you're a rider that's looking to
go prone foiling this Wing right here is
by far my favorite I have access to all
the different brands that we carry here
at the shop and the axis Spitfire is my
favorite Wing to go prone on so take
with that what you will Ryan is there
anything else you want to add from the
winging side of things who exactly this
Wing is for yeah anyone that's looking
to Wing in swell or waves and they
really want to carve the wave top to
bottom tight turns that sort of thing
this is a great setup for you it's extra
forgiving uh in the stall speed which
makes it really fun and easy to learn to
ride um and easy easier to learn how to
ride that style of riding if you're more
of someone that's kind of riding
straight down the W straight down the
wave or down the line or that sort of
thing so great uh great foil for the
Wingers out there that want to carve it
up in the surf and then it's also a
great wing for the guys looking to get
out there and prone all right guys this
has been Ryan and Cole here with mat
kite if You' got any questions feel free
to drop them in the comment section
below or you can reach out to us via
phone or email which is on our website
but until next time happy shredding guys
and we look forward to seeing you in
other
[Music]
videos